README.md, before:

# <img src="./public/logo.svg" width=35> Creators Registry

A place for Creators to get paid for their content 💰. Companies don't only look for big influencers but also micro influencers. Join the platform and let them find you!

![App screenshot](https://github.com/EddieHubCommunity/CreatorsRegistry/assets/624760/10efe758-a712-43a0-aa61-947ad26361af)

## Getting Started

All contributions welcome, not just code.

### Technologies

- NextJS (AppRouter)
- Prisma
- Postgres
- LinkedIn OAuth

### Requirements

- NodeJS
- Postgres
- LinkedIn OAuth

### Local development

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill out the parameters.
   - For LinkedIn parameters, create a developer app [here](https://developer.linkedin.com).

| ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE   | EXAMPLE VALUE                                                          | DESCRIPTION                                 |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------ |
| DATABASE_URL           | postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/contentcreator?schema=public | Connection url to your Postgres database    |
| NEXTAUTH_URL           | http://localhost:3000                                                  | Url to your app                             |
| NEXTAUTH_SECRET        | abcdefg                                                                | Random string                               |
| LINKEDIN_CLIENT_ID     | abcd1234efgh5678                                                       | This is generated by the LinkedIn OAuth app |
| LINKEDIN_CLIENT_SECRET | WER.asdflkjlkj234ljljjhg.asdf324jhghjg==                               | This is generated by the LinkedIn OAuth app |

<details>
    <summary>LinkedIn OAuth Details (click to expand)</summary>
    Authorized redirect URLs for your app <code>http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/linkedin</code>
    <img alt="LinkedIn OAuth screenshot of settings" src="https://github.com/EddieHubCommunity/CreatorsRegistry/assets/624760/c61a50eb-363e-4dcb-b208-405e256f7238">
</details>

2. Install the dependencies using `npm ci` from the package lock file (do not use `npm install` unless for a specific reason).
3. Ensure your Postgres server is running on `localhost:5432` with the default username and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` set as `password`.
4. Create the database tables by running `npm run db:dev:migrate` (for production, use `npm run db:prod:migrate`).
5. Seed the database by inserting example data with `npm run db:dev:seed` (if you need to reset the database, use `npm run db:dev:reset`).
6. Start the local development server with `npm run dev`.

### Postgres using Docker Compose

 Note: you must have docker installed 

Run the docker command `docker compose up -d`

## Join the EddieHub community
Discord http://discord.eddiehub.org

Commit message:

feat: docker and compose support (#55)
* chore: Add Docker configuration files and compose.yaml for local development

* feat: add start command to Dockerfile

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: Add container_name to server service in compose.yaml

* chore: Update Dockerfile image source URL

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: Update Docker configuration and compose.yaml for local development

* chore: add a blank line in the end

README.md, after:

# <img src="./public/logo.svg" width=35> Creators Registry

A place for Creators to get paid for their content 💰. Companies don't only look for big influencers but also micro influencers. Join the platform and let them find you!

![App screenshot](https://github.com/EddieHubCommunity/CreatorsRegistry/assets/624760/10efe758-a712-43a0-aa61-947ad26361af)

## Getting Started

All contributions welcome, not just code.

### Technologies

- NextJS (AppRouter)
- Prisma
- Postgres
- LinkedIn OAuth

### Local development

This environment is fully on your computer and requires each dependency to be installed and set up, but it gives you the most flexibility for customisation.

#### Prerequisites

NodeJS, Postgres and LinkedIn OAuth

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill out the parameters.
   - For LinkedIn parameters, create a developer app [here](https://developer.linkedin.com).
  
#### Environment Variables

| ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE   | EXAMPLE VALUE                                                          | DESCRIPTION                                 |
| :--------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------ |
| DATABASE_URL           | postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/contentcreator?schema=public | Connection url to your Postgres database    |
| NEXTAUTH_URL           | http://localhost:3000                                                  | Url to your app                             |
| NEXTAUTH_SECRET        | abcdefg                                                                | Random string                               |
| LINKEDIN_CLIENT_ID     | abcd1234efgh5678                                                       | This is generated by the LinkedIn OAuth app |
| LINKEDIN_CLIENT_SECRET | WER.asdflkjlkj234ljljjhg.asdf324jhghjg==                               | This is generated by the LinkedIn OAuth app |

<details>
    <summary>LinkedIn OAuth Details (click to expand)</summary>
    Authorized redirect URLs for your app <code>http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/linkedin</code>
    <img alt="LinkedIn OAuth screenshot of settings" src="https://github.com/EddieHubCommunity/CreatorsRegistry/assets/624760/c61a50eb-363e-4dcb-b208-405e256f7238">
</details>

1. Install the dependencies using `npm ci` from the package lock file (do not use `npm install` unless for a specific reason).
2. Ensure your Postgres server is running on `localhost:5432` with the default username and `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` set as `password`. To start a Postgres server using Docker and Compose, use `docker compose -f postgres.compose.yaml up`.
3. Create the database tables by running `npm run db:dev:migrate` (for production, use `npm run db:prod:migrate`).
4. Seed the database by inserting example data with `npm run db:dev:seed` (if you need to reset the database, use `npm run db:dev:reset`).
5. Start the local development server with `npm run dev`.

### Local Development with Docker Compose

This will allow you to use your favorite IDE without having to install any dependencies on your computer.

#### Prerequisites

Docker and Docker Compose

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the root of the directory.
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill out the parameters. Please refer to the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section.
   - For LinkedIn parameters, create a developer app [here](https://developer.linkedin.com).
   - There is no need to change the Postgres URL as it's already set in the [compose.yaml](compose.yaml) file.
3. Run `docker compose up`.
4. In your browser, go to `localhost:3000`, and you should see the project up and running.

## Join the EddieHub community
Discord http://discord.eddiehub.org
